README.md, before:

# NestJS Interview Questions & Answers

> Welcome to the NestJS Interview Questions and Answers repository! 
- This repository aims to be a comprehensive resource for NestJS developers preparing for interviews. Whether you're a beginner or an experienced developer, this collection of questions and answers is designed to help you brush up on your NestJS knowledge and excel in interviews.
> Click ⭐if you like the project and incase you're interested in contributing to this project. Before you dive in, please take a moment to review our guidelines.

## Important Links

- [Code of Conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md): We expect everyone participating in this project to follow our code of conduct. Make sure you understand and adhere to these guidelines.

- [Contributing Guidelines](./CONTRIBUTING.md): Before contributing, please read our contributing guidelines. They provide information on how to submit questions, report issues, and more.

> Follow me [@gasangw](https://github.com/gasangw).

### Table of Contents

| No. | Questions                                                                                                                                                         |
| --- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1   | [What is Nestjs](#what-is-nestjs)     
| 2   | [Who developed NestJS? Why did they develop NestJS?](#Who-developed-NestJS?-Why-did-they-develop-NestJS?)   
| 3   | [When was NestJS first released?](#When-was-NestJS-first-released?)    
| 4   | [How can you install NestJS and set up a new project on your machine?](#How-can-you-install-NestJS-and-set-up-a-new-project-on-your-machine?)                                  |
| 5   | [What’s the difference between NestJS and Angular?](#What’s-the-difference-between-NestJS-and-Angular?)                                  |
| 6   | [Is it possible to use other languages like C++, Ruby or Python with NestJS? If yes, then how?](#Is-it-possible-to-use-other-languages-like-C++,-Ruby-or-Python-with-NestJS?-If-yes,-then-how?)
| 7   | [What are the main components of a NestJS application?](#What-are-the-main-components-of-a-NestJS-application?) 
| 7   | [How to declare a class as a controller in Nest.js](#How-to-declare-a-class-as-a-controller-in-Nest.js)    
| 8   | [What is the main responsibility of controllers](#What-is-the-main-responsibility-of-controllers)  
| 9   | [Can you explain how to use decorators in a NestJS controller?](#Can-you-explain-how-to-use-decorators-in-a-NestJS-controller?) 
| 10   | [How can you use route parameters in a NestJS controller?](#How-can-you-use-route-parameters-in-a-NestJS-controller?) 
| 11   | [What is the role of the `@Body()` decorator?](#What-is-the-role-of-the-`@Body()`-decorator?) 
| 12   | [What is the role of the `@Body()` decorator?](#What-is-the-role-of-the-`@Body()`-decorator?) 


### Answers


1. ### What is Nestjs

   Nest(NestJS) is a framework for building efficient, scalable Node.js server side applications. It uses progressive JavaScript and its built with and fully suports Typescript.

2. ### Who developed NestJS? Why did they develop NestJS?
    
    NestJS was developed by Kamil Myśliwiec, who is a Polish software engineer. He developed NestJS to address the lack of a consistent structure in Node.js applications and to bring powerful features of frameworks like Angular to the server-side.

3. ### When was NestJS first released?
    NestJS was first released on October 5, 2016.

4. ### How can you install NestJS and set up a new project on your machine?
    To install NestJS on your machine, you need to have Node.js and npm (Node Package Manager) installed. Once you have those, you can install the NestJS CLI (Command Line Interface) globally on your machine using the following command:
    ```javascript
      $ npm i -g @nestjs/cli   
    ```
    This command installs the `NestJS CLI` globally, which allows you to use the nest command from anywhere on your machine. With the NestJS CLI, you can create new projects using 
    ```javascript
      $ nest new project-name
    ``` 
    and after creating a project you can generate NestJS modules, services, etc.
    ```javascript
     $ nest generate module users
    ```
    running
    ```javascript 
      $ nest g resource users
    ```
    will several files that work together to handle CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations for a particular entity, in this case, "users". It will generate:
    A `controller` for handling HTTP requests (e.g., users.controller.ts)
    A `service` for business logic (e.g., users.service.ts)
    A `module` to encapsulate the resource (e.g., users.module.ts)
    If you choose to generate a REST API, it will also generate `DTO` (Data Transfer Object) classes for handling input data (e.g., `create-user.dto.ts, update-user.dto.ts`)
    If you choose to generate a GraphQL API, it will also generate a resolver (e.g., `users.resolver.ts`)

5. ### What’s the difference between NestJS and Angular?
    Angular is a framework for building client-side applications and It provides a way to organize your frontend code using components, modules, services, etc. while NestJS is a framework for building server-side applications. NestJS is built on top of TypeScript and Express, and it aims to provide a more robust and scalable architecture for enterprise-level applications. However It's heavily inspired by Angular and shares similar concepts like modules, decorators, and dependency injection.

6. ### Is it possible to use other languages like C++, Ruby or Python with NestJS? If yes, then how?
    Yes, it is possible to use other languages with NestJS. NestJS is language agnostic, meaning that it can work with any language that can compile to JavaScript.
    As for Python, Ruby, or other languages, they can't be used directly with NestJS because NestJS relies on the Node.js runtime, which executes JavaScript. As for Python, Ruby, or other languages, they can't be used directly with NestJS because NestJS relies on the Node.js runtime, which executes JavaScript. However, you can certainly build separate services in Python, Ruby, or any other language, and have them communicate with your NestJS application via HTTP, gRPC, or any other communication protocol. This is a common pattern in microservices architecture.

7. ### What are the main components of a NestJS application?
    

8. ### How to declare a class as a controller in Nest.js

    In Nest.js we can declare a class as a controller by using the **@Controller()** decorator. Here is a basic example.

    ```javascript
      import { Controller, Get } from '@nestjs/common';
      
      @Controller('example')
      class ExampleController {

         @Get()
         getHello(): string {
            return 'Hello world!';
         }
     }
    ```
    In this example the `ExampleController` is a controller class. **@Controller('example')** decorator tells Nest.js that this class is a controller that should handle requests to the `example` route. The **@Get()** decorator on the `getHello` method indicates that this method should handle HTTP GET requests.

    **[⬆ Back to Top](#table-of-contents)**

9.  ### What is the main responsibility of controllers

    Controllers are responsible for handling incoming `requests` and returning `responses` to the client.Controllers organize routes and handle HTTP requests that come to those routes.
   
    **[⬆ Back to Top](#table-of-contents)**

10. ### Can you explain how to use decorators in a NestJS controller?
    Decorators in a NestJS controller are used to define routes and to handle different types of HTTP requests. For example, `@Get()`, `@Post()`, `@Put()`, `@Delete()` are used to handle GET, POST, PUT, DELETE requests respectively.
    ```javascript
    import { Controller, Get, Param, Body, Post, Patch, Delete } from '@nestjs/common';

    @Controller('cats')
    export class CatsController {
      @Get()
      findAll(): string {
        return 'This action returns all cats';
      }

      @Get(':id')
      findOne(@Param('id') id: number): string {
        return `This action returns a cat with the provided id`;
      }

      @Post()
      create(@Body() body: any): string {
        return `This action returns the body of the cat`;
      }

      @Patch('id')
      update(@Param('id') id: number, @Body() body: any ): string {
        return `This action updates the body of the cat`;
      }

      @Delete('id')
      remove(@Param('id') id: number): string {
        return `This action removes a cat`;
      }
    }

    ```
    **[⬆ Back to Top](#table-of-contents)**
  
11. ### How can you use route parameters in a NestJS controller?
    Route parameters in a NestJS controller can be accessed using the `@Param()` decorator in the controller methods.
    ```javascript
        @Patch('id')
        update(@Param('id') id: number, @Body() body: any ): string {
           return `This action updates the body of the cat`;
        }
    ```
    **[⬆ Back to Top](#table-of-contents)**

12. ### What is the role of the `@Body()` decorator?
    The `@Body()` decorator in NestJS is used to extract the entire body of the incoming HTTP request. It's commonly used in methods that handle POST and PUT requests where data is sent in the body of the request.

    For example, if you have a method in your controller to create a new user, you might use the `@Body()` decorator to get the user data from the request:
    ```javascript
     @Post()
     create(@Body() createUserDto: CreateUserDto) {
      return this.usersService.create(createUserDto);
     }
    ```
    In this example, createUserDto is an object that contains the data sent in the request body. The @Body() decorator automatically parses the JSON request body and assigns it to the createUserDto parameter.
    
    **[⬆ Back to Top](#table-of-contents)**

Commit message:

refactor: add answers for the question of main components

README.md, after:

# NestJS Interview Questions & Answers

> Welcome to the NestJS Interview Questions and Answers repository! 
- This repository aims to be a comprehensive resource for NestJS developers preparing for interviews. Whether you're a beginner or an experienced developer, this collection of questions and answers is designed to help you brush up on your NestJS knowledge and excel in interviews.
> Click ⭐if you like the project and incase you're interested in contributing to this project. Before you dive in, please take a moment to review our guidelines.

## Important Links

- [Code of Conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md): We expect everyone participating in this project to follow our code of conduct. Make sure you understand and adhere to these guidelines.

- [Contributing Guidelines](./CONTRIBUTING.md): Before contributing, please read our contributing guidelines. They provide information on how to submit questions, report issues, and more.

> Follow me [@gasangw](https://github.com/gasangw).

### Table of Contents

| No. | Questions                                                                                                                                                         |
| --- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1   | [What is Nestjs](#what-is-nestjs)     
| 2   | [Who developed NestJS? Why did they develop NestJS?](#Who-developed-NestJS?-Why-did-they-develop-NestJS?)   
| 3   | [When was NestJS first released?](#When-was-NestJS-first-released?)    
| 4   | [How can you install NestJS and set up a new project on your machine?](#How-can-you-install-NestJS-and-set-up-a-new-project-on-your-machine?)                                  |
| 5   | [What’s the difference between NestJS and Angular?](#What’s-the-difference-between-NestJS-and-Angular?)                                  |
| 6   | [Is it possible to use other languages like C++, Ruby or Python with NestJS? If yes, then how?](#Is-it-possible-to-use-other-languages-like-C++,-Ruby-or-Python-with-NestJS?-If-yes,-then-how?)
| 7   | [What are the main components of a NestJS application?](#What-are-the-main-components-of-a-NestJS-application?) 
| 7   | [How to declare a class as a controller in Nest.js](#How-to-declare-a-class-as-a-controller-in-Nest.js)    
| 8   | [What is the main responsibility of controllers](#What-is-the-main-responsibility-of-controllers)  
| 9   | [Can you explain how to use decorators in a NestJS controller?](#Can-you-explain-how-to-use-decorators-in-a-NestJS-controller?) 
| 10   | [How can you use route parameters in a NestJS controller?](#How-can-you-use-route-parameters-in-a-NestJS-controller?) 
| 11   | [What is the role of the `@Body()` decorator?](#What-is-the-role-of-the-`@Body()`-decorator?) 
| 12   | [What is the role of the `@Body()` decorator?](#What-is-the-role-of-the-`@Body()`-decorator?) 


### Answers


1. ### What is Nestjs

   Nest(NestJS) is a framework for building efficient, scalable Node.js server side applications. It uses progressive JavaScript and its built with and fully suports Typescript.

2. ### Who developed NestJS? Why did they develop NestJS?
    
    NestJS was developed by Kamil Myśliwiec, who is a Polish software engineer. He developed NestJS to address the lack of a consistent structure in Node.js applications and to bring powerful features of frameworks like Angular to the server-side.

3. ### When was NestJS first released?
    NestJS was first released on October 5, 2016.

4. ### How can you install NestJS and set up a new project on your machine?
    To install NestJS on your machine, you need to have Node.js and npm (Node Package Manager) installed. Once you have those, you can install the NestJS CLI (Command Line Interface) globally on your machine using the following command:
    ```javascript
      $ npm i -g @nestjs/cli   
    ```
    This command installs the `NestJS CLI` globally, which allows you to use the nest command from anywhere on your machine. With the NestJS CLI, you can create new projects using 
    ```javascript
      $ nest new project-name
    ``` 
    and after creating a project you can generate NestJS modules, services, etc.
    ```javascript
     $ nest generate module users
    ```
    running
    ```javascript 
      $ nest g resource users
    ```
    will several files that work together to handle CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations for a particular entity, in this case, "users". It will generate:
    A `controller` for handling HTTP requests (e.g., users.controller.ts)
    A `service` for business logic (e.g., users.service.ts)
    A `module` to encapsulate the resource (e.g., users.module.ts)
    If you choose to generate a REST API, it will also generate `DTO` (Data Transfer Object) classes for handling input data (e.g., `create-user.dto.ts, update-user.dto.ts`)
    If you choose to generate a GraphQL API, it will also generate a resolver (e.g., `users.resolver.ts`)

5. ### What’s the difference between NestJS and Angular?
    Angular is a framework for building client-side applications and It provides a way to organize your frontend code using components, modules, services, etc. while NestJS is a framework for building server-side applications. NestJS is built on top of TypeScript and Express, and it aims to provide a more robust and scalable architecture for enterprise-level applications. However It's heavily inspired by Angular and shares similar concepts like modules, decorators, and dependency injection.

6. ### Is it possible to use other languages like C++, Ruby or Python with NestJS? If yes, then how?
    Yes, it is possible to use other languages with NestJS. NestJS is language agnostic, meaning that it can work with any language that can compile to JavaScript.
    As for Python, Ruby, or other languages, they can't be used directly with NestJS because NestJS relies on the Node.js runtime, which executes JavaScript. As for Python, Ruby, or other languages, they can't be used directly with NestJS because NestJS relies on the Node.js runtime, which executes JavaScript. However, you can certainly build separate services in Python, Ruby, or any other language, and have them communicate with your NestJS application via HTTP, gRPC, or any other communication protocol. This is a common pattern in microservices architecture.

7. ### What are the main components of a NestJS application?
    The main contents of the nestjs application inlcude: 
    `Modules:` Modules are a way of organizing related components into a single block. They provide a way to structure your application.
    `Controllers:` Controllers handle incoming HTTP requests and return responses. They are responsible for validating input and mapping business operations to specific route handlers.
    `Services:` services are responsible for business logic and interacting with data sources. They can be injected into controllers or other services, promoting code reusability and separation of concerns.

8. ### How to declare a class as a controller in Nest.js

    In Nest.js we can declare a class as a controller by using the **@Controller()** decorator. Here is a basic example.

    ```javascript
      import { Controller, Get } from '@nestjs/common';
      
      @Controller('example')
      class ExampleController {

         @Get()
         getHello(): string {
            return 'Hello world!';
         }
     }
    ```
    In this example the `ExampleController` is a controller class. **@Controller('example')** decorator tells Nest.js that this class is a controller that should handle requests to the `example` route. The **@Get()** decorator on the `getHello` method indicates that this method should handle HTTP GET requests.

    **[⬆ Back to Top](#table-of-contents)**

9.  ### What is the main responsibility of controllers

    Controllers are responsible for handling incoming `requests` and returning `responses` to the client.Controllers organize routes and handle HTTP requests that come to those routes.
   
    **[⬆ Back to Top](#table-of-contents)**

10. ### Can you explain how to use decorators in a NestJS controller?
    Decorators in a NestJS controller are used to define routes and to handle different types of HTTP requests. For example, `@Get()`, `@Post()`, `@Put()`, `@Delete()` are used to handle GET, POST, PUT, DELETE requests respectively.
    ```javascript
    import { Controller, Get, Param, Body, Post, Patch, Delete } from '@nestjs/common';

    @Controller('cats')
    export class CatsController {
      @Get()
      findAll(): string {
        return 'This action returns all cats';
      }

      @Get(':id')
      findOne(@Param('id') id: number): string {
        return `This action returns a cat with the provided id`;
      }

      @Post()
      create(@Body() body: any): string {
        return `This action returns the body of the cat`;
      }

      @Patch('id')
      update(@Param('id') id: number, @Body() body: any ): string {
        return `This action updates the body of the cat`;
      }

      @Delete('id')
      remove(@Param('id') id: number): string {
        return `This action removes a cat`;
      }
    }

    ```
    **[⬆ Back to Top](#table-of-contents)**
  
11. ### How can you use route parameters in a NestJS controller?
    Route parameters in a NestJS controller can be accessed using the `@Param()` decorator in the controller methods.
    ```javascript
        @Patch('id')
        update(@Param('id') id: number, @Body() body: any ): string {
           return `This action updates the body of the cat`;
        }
    ```
    **[⬆ Back to Top](#table-of-contents)**

12. ### What is the role of the `@Body()` decorator?
    The `@Body()` decorator in NestJS is used to extract the entire body of the incoming HTTP request. It's commonly used in methods that handle POST and PUT requests where data is sent in the body of the request.

    For example, if you have a method in your controller to create a new user, you might use the `@Body()` decorator to get the user data from the request:
    ```javascript
     @Post()
     create(@Body() createUserDto: CreateUserDto) {
      return this.usersService.create(createUserDto);
     }
    ```
    In this example, createUserDto is an object that contains the data sent in the request body. The @Body() decorator automatically parses the JSON request body and assigns it to the createUserDto parameter.
    
    **[⬆ Back to Top](#table-of-contents)**
